# T-S2/T-PS

> [Data for: Application of deep learning models to provide a generalizable approach for cloud, shadow and land cover classification in PlanetScope and Sentinel-2 imagery](https://data.mendeley.com/datasets/6gdybpjnwh/1)

## Introduction

- [Official Site](https://data.mendeley.com/datasets/6gdybpjnwh/1)
- [Paper Download](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0924271619302023?via%3Dihub)
- Data Download: [USGS](https://prod-dcd-datasets-cache-zipfiles.s3.eu-west-1.amazonaws.com/6gdybpjnwh-1.zip)

## Abstract

With the increasing availability of high-resolution satellite imagery it is important to improve the efficiency and accuracy of satellite image indexing, retrieval and classification. Furthermore, there is a need for utilizing all available satellite imagery in identifying general land cover types and monitoring their changes through time irrespective of their spatial, spectral, temporal and radiometric resolutions. Therefore, in this study, we developed deep learning models able to efficiently and accurately classify cloud, shadow and land cover scenes in different high-resolution (<10 m) satellite imagery. Specifically, we trained deep convolutional neural network (CNN) models to perform multi-label classification of multi-modal, high-resolution satellite imagery at the scene level. Multi-label classification at the scene level (a.k.a. image indexing), as opposed to the pixel level, allows for faster performance, higher accuracy (although at the cost of detail) and higher generalizability. We investigated the generalization ability (i.e. cross-dataset and geographic independence) of individual and ensemble CNN models trained on multi-modal satellite imagery (i.e. PlanetScope and Sentinel-2). The models trained on PlanetScope imagery collected over the Amazon performed well when applied to PlanetScope and Sentinel-2 imagery collected over the Wet Tropics of Australia with an F2 score of 0.72 and 0.69, respectively. Similarly, PlanetScope-based CNN models trained on imagery collected over the Wet Tropics of Australia performed well when applied to Sentinel-2 imagery with an F2 score of 0.76, and the reverse scenario resulted in the same F2 score of 0.76. This suggests that our CNN models have high cross-dataset generalization ability and are suitable for classifying cloud, shadow and land cover classes in satellite imagery with resolutions from 3 m (PlanetScope) to 10 m (Sentinel-2). The performance of our CNN models was also comparable to the state-of-the-art methods (i.e. Sen2Cor and MACCS) developed specifically for classifying cloud and shadow classes in Sentinel-2 imagery. Finally, we show the potential of our CNN models to mask cloud and shadow contaminated areas from PlanetScope- and Sentinel-2-derived NDVI time-series.

## Dataset

The dataset consists of PlanetScope and Sentinel-2 derived scenes (i.e. chips) collected over the Wet Tropics of Australia between December 1, 2016 and November 1, 2017. All PlanetScope imagery contains four bands of data: red, green, blue (RGB) and near infrared (NIR), and had a ground sample distance (GSD) of 3.125 m. In contrast, Sentinel-2 imagery was trimmed to contain only RGB and NIR bands, and resampled to 3.125 m resolution to match PlanetScope imagery. Here we refer to the Wet Tropics PlanetScope- and Sentinel-2-derived data as datasets T-PS and T-S2, respectively. The T-PS and T-S2 datasets were generated by splitting satellite imagery with a grid of 128×128 pixels (i.e. 400×400 m) into image scenes, and extracting a random sample of 2.5% and 0.5% scenes per time step, respectively. This resulted in 4,943 and 4,993 image scenes in T-PS and T-S2 datasets, respectively. Datasets T-PS and T-S2 were manually labeled with 12 labels split into three groups:
1) Cloud labels (‘clear’, ‘partly cloudy’, ‘cloudy’, ‘haze’). 
2) Shade labels (‘unshaded’, ‘partly shaded’, ‘shaded’), which indicated the level of shade caused by cloud cover on a specific scene.
3) Land cover labels (‘forest’, ‘bare ground’, ‘water’, ‘agriculture’, ‘habitation’).
Labels belonging to cloud and shade label groups are mutually exclusive for each scene, that is, each image scene received exactly one shade label and one cloud label. 



```yaml
name: T-S2/T-PS
source: PlanetScope and Sentinel-2 
band: 4
resolution: 3.125m
pixel: 128*128
train: -
val: -
test: -
disk: 893MB
Cloud labels: 
    - clear
    - partly cloudy
    - cloudy
    - haze
Shade labels :
    - unshaded
    - partly shaded
    - shaded

Land cover labels :
    - forest
    - bare ground
    - water
    - agriculture
    - habitation

```

## Citation

```bibtex
@article{Shendryk2019,
  title={Deep learning for multi-modal classification of cloud, shadow and land cover scenes in PlanetScope and Sentinel-2 imagery},
  author={Shendryk, Yuri and Rist, Yasha and Ticehurst, Catherine and Thorburn, Peter},
  journal={ISPRS Journal of Photogrammetry and Remote Sensing},
  volume={157},
  pages={124--136},
  year={2019},
  publisher={Elsevier}
}
```
